+++
date = "2016-07-10T17:10:22-05:00"
slug = ""
tags = ["benefits", "military"]
title = "How does for Military"

+++
*...or why companies prefer you only live and breathe their job*

Many companies make a point to mention all of their benefits, touting how they
are 'among the best', or have 'a competitive benefits package'.  This might be
true for the 80% case, but being an actively drilling Reservist in the United
States Army Reserve, there's an obviously lacking set of benefits that appeal to
me.

# What is a "Drilling Reservist/Guard Member?"

You may have heard the sales pitch:

> One weekend a month, two weeks a year

and think that's pretty reasonable.

Well, that's what I thought when I joined.  However, 9/11 was in 2001, and since
then, the amount of contribution that the Reserve/Guard side of the military has
taken on a **significant** increase of the share of deployments, etc.  I know
many people who have served *multiple* deployments of 6-18 months in a 5-10 year
period.  That's a lot.

## Increased Tempo

## Increased Training

In addition to the minimum requirement mentioned above, more often than not, you
may want to take on an additional training course or two in order to stand out
from your peers and potentially increase your knowledge and expertise in your
military occupational field.  This is possible, but generally doesn't fall
within your normal annual training cycle.

## Non-Standard Training cycles

Here's a couple of my annual training schedules




# What does "Supporting the Troops" mean, anyway?

The term **Support the Troops** is very, VERY often, thrown about without any
regard for *how* to do that.  I can only speak as a Reservist, so Active Duty
members may have a different opinion on the matter.  That said, I deal with
civilians daily, so I am often the face of the military for many people.

# Benefits for Reservists

Of all the benefits I look at as a potential employee, none stands out more than
whether you have any policy defined **at all** for drilling members of the
military.  These benefts vary, but generally speaking, the biggest one is
simply:

**Salary Continuity**

This includes all *training*, *monthly drill periods*, activation (when
necessary), and additional training as required.

make it obvious that your employment isn't in jeopardy if you choose to do more
than the minimum required by contract.

Simply put, being able to provide continuity to my salary and family's life is
one of the most important aspects of 

# What you can do

I hope that I've outlined 

