content/2016/legacy-integration-migrations.md, before:

+++
title = "Migrating Legacy Systems"
date = "2016-10-24T17:55:05-05:00"
slug = ""
tags = [
  "",
  "",
]
draft = true

+++

# Migration Nightmares

It appears almost expected that some system is going to be replaced by something newer and shinier than the last one, and you'll be expected to migrate everything you *just* got working on the old system, and port it or do whatever you need to do, in order to get it in to the **new** system.  I have a few opinions on the matter, so let's discuss how you can do that.



# Identify your Integrations

The first and foremost priority should be to assess the territory you have.  It's probably obvious at this point, but you need to 





1. Identify Systems and integrations that exist on the old system
   1. Sort by Priority
   2. Identify Critical Infrastructure (what would happen if that box died).
      - How long would it take to bring it back up?
      - How much money would you lose in the meantime?
2. Identify future projects that overlap the systems you have integrations with
   * ​
3. Work involved in migrating to new system?
   * Is it a retire-only integration (that is, no need to even consider migrating it anywhere at all, it will be superceded by something else entirely)?
   * Major amount of work?
   * Minor amount of work?
4. ​



## Major Project Work

If you have some integrations that are going to be massively complicated to migrate, you almost need to start the gears moving on those immediately.  The timeline for getting these kinds of things moved over can require a lot of hand-holding and process tracking, 





# How do you categorize the work?

This is a pretty tough one, but there are a couple methods that can help at least point you to the effort involved:

1. Identify the amount of work involved in migrating to the new system
2. How many other systems does this integration touch?
3. How many other integrations are related to this one?
4. Cost of downtime estimates
   * How much is it going to cost the company if this integration was completely cut off (i.e. a server died unexpectedly)?
   * How long would it take to bring it back up?
5. ​



If you identify at least these items, you can begin to find the **big** fish from the *little* fish.

Commit message:

add some content to legacy integration migrations

content/2016/legacy-integration-migrations.md, after:

+++
title = "Migrating Legacy Systems"
date = "2016-10-24T17:55:05-05:00"
slug = ""
tags = [
  "",
  "",
]
draft = true

+++

# Migration Nightmares

I'm willing to be that there is an inevitable moment in any popular tool or framework's life that you are required to retire it in favor of the *new hotness*.  I have a few opinions on the matter, so let's discuss how you can do that.



# Identify your Integrations

The first and foremost priority should be to assess the territory you have.  It's probably obvious at this point, but you need to 





1. Identify Systems and integrations that exist on the old system
   1. Sort by Priority
   2. Identify Critical Infrastructure (what would happen if that box died).
      - How long would it take to bring it back up?
      - How much money would you lose in the meantime?
2. Identify future projects that overlap the systems you have integrations with
   * ​
3. Work involved in migrating to new system?
   * Is it a retire-only integration (that is, no need to even consider migrating it anywhere at all, it will be superceded by something else entirely)?
   * Major amount of work?
   * Minor amount of work?
4. ​



## Major Project Work

If you have some integrations that are going to be massively complicated to migrate, you almost need to start the gears moving on those immediately.  The timeline for getting these kinds of things moved over can require a lot of hand-holding and process tracking, 





# How do you categorize the work?

This is a pretty tough one, but there are a couple methods that can help at least point you to the effort involved:

1. Identify the amount of work involved in migrating to the new system
2. How many other systems does this integration touch?
3. How many other integrations are related to this one?
4. Cost of downtime estimates
   * How much is it going to cost the company if this integration was completely cut off (i.e. a server died unexpectedly)?
   * How long would it take to bring it back up?
5. ​



If you identify at least these items, you can begin to find the **big** fish from the *little* fish.
